RHDEVDOCS-6105: Pipelines 1.16 Release Notes (#82627)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-release-notes-1-16.adoc

[id="new-features-1-16_{context}"]
== New features

In addition to fixes and stability improvements, the following sections highlight what is new in {pipelines-title} 1.16:

[id="pipelines-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== Pipelines

* With this update, you can configure the resync period for the pipelines controller. Once every resync period, the controller reconciles all pipeline runs and task runs, regardless of events. The default resync period is 10 hours. If you have a large number of pipeline runs and task runs, a full reconciliation every 10 hours might consume too many resources. In this case, you can configure a longer resync period.
+
.Example of configuring a resync period of 24 hours
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  pipeline:
    options:
      deployments:
        tekton-pipelines-controller:
          spec:
            template:
              spec:
                containers:
                - name: tekton-pipelines-controller
                  args:
                    - "-resync-period=24h" 
----

[id="Operator-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== Operator

> * With this update, when using KMS signing in {tekton-chains}, instead of providing the KMS authentication token value directly in the configuration, you can provide the token value as a secret by using the `signers.kms.auth.token-path` setting.  

Reviewer: I suggest moving this to the Chains list as the sister feature is already there

+
.Example configuration for watching only the `dev` and `test` namespaces
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  chain:
    disabled: false
    options:
      deployments:
        tekton-chains-controller:
          spec:
            template:
              spec:
                containers:
                - args:
                  - --namespace=dev, test 
                  name: tekton-chains-controller
----

[id="tekton-results-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== {tekton-results}

[id="breaking-changes-1-16_{context}"]
== Breaking changes

[id="known-issues-1-16_{context}"]
== Known issues

[id="fixed-issues-1-16_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

* Before this update, when you uninstalled {tekton-hub} by deleting the `TektonHub` CR, the pod of the `hub-db-migration` job was not deleted. With this update, uninstalling {tekton-hub} deletes the pod.

> * Before this update, when you used {tekton-results} to store pod logs from pipelines and tasks, the operation to store the logs sometimes failed. The logs would include the `UpdateLog` action failing with the `canceled context` error. With this update the operation completes correctly. 

Reviewer: I'd put a comma after "With this update"

> * Before this update, when you passed a parameter value to a pipeline or task and this value included more than one variable, and they use both full and short reference formats, for example, `"$(tasks.task-name.results.variable1) + $(variable2)`, {pipelines-shortname} did not interpret the value correctly; the pipeline run or task run could stop execution and the Pipelines controller could crash. With this update, {pipelines-shortname} interprets the value correctly and the pipeline run or task run completes.

Reviewer: Remove the stray "

* Before this update, {tekton-chains} would fail to generate correct attestations when a task run included multiple tasks with the same name. For instance, when using a matrix of tasks, the attestation would only be generated for the first image. With this update, {tekton-chains} generates attestations for all tasks within the task run, ensuring complete coverage.

> * Before this update, when you used the `skopeo-copy` task defined in the {pipelines-shortname} installation namespace and set its `VERBOSE` parameter to false, the task failed. With this update, the task completes normally.

Reviewer: use ` formatting for false

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1 
kind: Pipeline 
metadata:
  name: example-onerror-pipeline
spec:
  tasks:
  - name: task-that-fails
    onError: continue
    taskSpec:
      steps:
      - image: alpine
        name: exit-with-1
        script: |
          exit 1
  - name: next-task
# ...
----

* With this update, if a task fails, a `finally` task can access the `reason` parameter in addition to the `status` parameter to distinguish if the failure was allowed or not. You can access the `reason` parameter  through `$(tasks.<task_name>.reason)`. If the failure is allowed, the `reason` is set to`FailureIgnored`, if the failure is not allowed, the `reason` is set to `Failed`. This additional information can be used to identify that the checks failed, but the failure can be ignored. 

* With this update, larger results are supported through sidecar logs as an alternative to the default configuration, which limits results to the size of 4 KB per step and 12 KB per task run. To enable larger results using sidecar logs, set the `results-from` feature flag to `sidecar-logs` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc patch cm feature-flags -n openshift-pipelines -p '{"data":{"results-from":"sidecar-logs"}}' 

Reviewer: This was approved by @vdemeester but I'd appreciate if Vincent took another look - I thought patching a configmap directly might not work on the product install?

----

> * Before this update, parameter propagation was allowed in `PipelineRun` and `TaskRun` resources, but not in the `Pipeline` resource. With this update, you can propagate `params` in the `Pipeline` resource down to the inlined pipeline `tasks` and its inlined `steps`. Wherever a resource, such as `PipelineTask` or `StepAction`, is referenced, the parameters need to be passed explicitly. 

Reviewer: @eromanova97 please change to "you must pass the parameters explicitly" as this refers to a user action not what the software does

+
.Example of using `params` within a pipeline
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1 # or tekton.dev/v1beta1
kind: Pipeline
metadata:
  name: pipeline-propagated-params
spec:
  params:
    - name: HELLO
      default: "Hello World!"
    - name: BYE
      default: "Bye World!"
  tasks:
    - name: echo-hello
      taskSpec:
        steps:
          - name: echo
            image: ubuntu
            script: |
              #!/usr/bin/env bash
              echo "$(params.HELLO)"
    - name: echo-bye
      taskSpec:
        steps:
          - name: echo-action
            ref:
              name: step-action-echo
            params:
              - name: msg
                value: "$(params.BYE)" 
----

> * With this update, you can use the task tun or pipeline run definition to configure the compute resources for steps and sidecars in a task. 

Reviewer: typo - task run

+
.Example task for configuring resources
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1
kind: Task
metadata:
  name: side-step
spec:
  steps:
    - name: test
      image: docker.io//alpine:latest
  sidecars:
    - name: side
      image: docker.io/linuxcontainers/alpine:latest
----
+
.Example `TaskRun` definition that configures the resources
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1
kind: TaskRun
metadata:
  name: test-sidestep
spec:
  taskRef:
    name: side-step
  stepSpecs:
    - name: test
      computeResources:
        requests:
          memory: 1Gi
  sidecarSpecs:
    - name: side
      computeResources:
        requests:
          cpu: 100m
        limits:
          cpu: 500m
----

[id="Operator-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== Operator

> * With this update, {pipelines-shortname} includes the `git-clone` `StepAction` definition for a step that clones a Git repository. Use the HTTP resolver to reference this definition. The URL for the definition is `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-pipelines/tektoncd-catalog/p/stepactions/stepaction-git-clone/0.4.1/stepaction-git-clone.yaml`. The `StepAction` definition is also installed in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace, however, the cluster resolver does not support `StepActions` definitions at present.

Reviewer: does not support `StepAction` definitions (no plurals on resource names)

* With this update, you can configure the `FailurePolicy`, `TimeoutSeconds`, and `SideEffects` options for webhooks for several components of {pipelines-shortname} by using the `TektonConfig` CR.
+
.Example configuration of webhooks options for the `pipeline` component
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  pipeline:
    options:
      webhookConfigurationOptions:
        validation.webhook.pipeline.tekton.dev:
          failurePolicy: Fail
          timeoutSeconds: 20
          sideEffects: None
        webhook.pipeline.tekton.dev:
          failurePolicy: Fail
          timeoutSeconds: 20
          sideEffects: None
----
+
You can use similar configuration for webhooks in the `triggers`, `pipelinesAsCode`, and `hub` components.

[id="triggers-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== Triggers

> * With this update, the `readOnlyRootFilesystem` parameter for the pipelines triggers controller, webhook, Core Interceptor, and event listener is set to `true` by default to improve security and avoid being flagged by the security scanner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With this update, the `readOnlyRootFilesystem` parameter for the triggers controller, webhook, Core Interceptor, and event listener is set to `true` by default to improve security and avoid being flagged by the security scanner.
```

+
.Example of configuring trigger event listeners to run as non-root
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  trigger:
    options:
      disabled: false
      configMaps:
        config-defaults-triggers: 
          data:
            default-run-as-non-root: "true"
            default-run-as-user: "65532"
            default-run-as-group: "65532"
            default-fs-group: "65532"
----
+
Optionally, you can set the values of the `default-run-as-user` and `default-run-as-group` parameters to configure the numeric user ID and group ID for running the event listeners in containers; {pipelines-shortname} sets these values in the pod security context and container security context for event listeners. If you use empty values, the default user ID and group ID of `65532` are used.
+
You can also set the `default-fs-group` parameter to define the `fsGroup` value for the pod security context, which is the group ID that the container processes use for the file system. If you use an empty value, the default group ID of `65532` is used.

> * With this update, in pipelines triggers, the `EventListener` pod template now includes `securityContext` settings. Under these settings, you can configure `seccompProfile`, `runAsUser`, `runAsGroup`, and `fsGroup` parameters when the `el-security-context` flag is set to `true`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With this update, in triggers, the `EventListener` pod template now includes `securityContext` settings. Under these settings, you can configure `seccompProfile`, `runAsUser`, `runAsGroup`, and `fsGroup` parameters when the `el-security-context` flag is set to `true`. 
```

[id="web-console-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== Web console

* Before this release, when using the web console, you could not see the timestamp for the logs that {pipelines-shortname} created. With this update, the web console includes timestamps for all logs for {pipelines-shortname}.

> * With this update, the pipeline run and task run *list* pages in the web console now have a filter for the datasource, that is `k8s` and `TektonResults API`.

Reviewer: I'd replace "that is" with "such as" and also mabe use "data source" with a space

> * Before this update, when using the web console in the *Developer* perspective, you could not specify the timeout for pipeline runs. With this update, you can now set timeout while starting the pipeline run in the *Developer* perspective of the web console. 

Reviewer: "you can set a timeout" - "now" does not add value and "timeout" is singular so needs an article

> * Before this update, the *Overview* pipeline dashboard only appeared when {tekton-results} was enabled. All the statistics came from only the results API. With this update, the *Overview* pipeline dashboard is available regardless of whether {tekton-results} is enabled or not. When {tekton-results} are disabled, you can use the dashboard to see the statistics for objects in the cluster.

Reviewer: - "the Results API", capitalised
- "When {tekton-results@ is disabled" - it's a single component named "Tekton Results" (compare "Windows is installed")

* With this update, the sample pipelines displayed in the web console use the `v1` version of the {pipelines-shortname} API.

[id="cli-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== CLI

> * With this update, the `tkn customrun delete <custom_run_names>` command is added to delete one or more custom runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can use the `tkn customrun delete <custom_run_names>` command to delete one or more custom runs.
```

> * With this update, when you run a `list` command with the `-o` YAML flag, the listed resources are now separated with `---` separators to enhance readability of the output.

Reviewer: presumably `tkn list` ?

Author: @mramendi I wrote it as just `list`, because there are (when looking at our tkn reference docs) `tkn pipeline list`, `tkn task list`, etc. So I thought having it as `tkn list` would not be accurate.  Maybe `tkn <resource> list`? Which do you think would be better?

Author: Great! Done

[id="pac-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== {pac}

> * With this update, if you create two `PipelineRun` definitions with the same name, {pac} logs an error and does not run either of these pipeline runs.

Reviewer 2: @mramendi i think in the google doc there was more info and its not there here
basically we want to include below info
```
Redesign and Enhancement of PAC Resolver to cover few scenarios like https://github.com/openshift-pipelines/pipelines-as-code/pull/1762
* PAC will not resolve Pipelines unnecessarily which are not part of the PipelineRuns filtered for the event
* Now you can use different version of same Task in different PipelineRuns/Pipelines.
```
ref : https://github.com/openshift-pipelines/pipelines-as-code/releases/tag/v0.28.0

Author: Hello @savitaashture , I deleted the entry you are mentioning, because it was a duplicate of these two:

* Before this update, when using {pac}, if your `.tekton` directory contained a pipeline that was not referenced by any `PipelineRun` definition triggered in the event, {pac} attempted to fetch all the required tasks for that pipeline even though it was not run. With this update, {pac} does not try to resolve pipelines that are not referenced in any pipeline run triggered by the current event.

* Before this update, when using {pac}, if different `PipelineRun` definitions used the same task name but different versions, for example when fetching tasks from {tekton-hub},the wrong version was sometimes triggered, because {pac} used the same task version for all pipeline runs. With this update, {pac} triggers the correct version of the referenced task.

Please correct me if that assumption was wrong, but I though these two and the ones you mentioned are referring to the same thing. Thank you!

Reviewer 2: Yes yes i m referring these two 
i see they are covered 
LGTM

Author: Great, thanks!

> * With this update, the {pac} `pipelines_as_code_pipelinerun_count` metric now allows filtering of the `PipelineRun` count by repository or namespace.

Reviewer: I'd remove "now"

* With this update, the `readOnlyRootFilesystem` security context for the {pac} controller, webhook, and watcher is set to `true` by default to increase security and avoid being flagged by the security scanner.

[id="tekton-chains-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== {tekton-chains}

> * With this update, when using `docdb` storage in {tekton-chains}, you can configure the `MONGO_SERVER_URL` value directly in the `TektonConfig` CR as the `storage.docdb.mongo-server-url` setting. Alternatively, you provide this value using a secret and set the `storage.docdb.mongo-server-url-dir` setting to the directory where the `MONGO_SERVER_URL` file is located.

Reviewer: "Alternatively, you can provide..."

  --from-file=MONGO_SERVER_URL=home/user/MONGO_SERVER_URL 
----
+
.Example of configuring the `MONGO_SERVER_URL` value using a secret
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
# ...
  chain:
    disabled: false
    storage.docdb.mongo-server-url-dir: /tmp/mongo-url
    options:
      deployments:
        tekton-chains-controller:
          spec:
            template:
              spec:
                containers:
                - name: tekton-chains-controller
                  volumeMounts:
                  - mountPath: /tmp/mongo-url
                    name: mongo-url
                volumes:
                -  name: mongo-url
                   secret:
                    secretName: mongo-url
# ...
----

* With this update, when using KMS signing in {tekton-chains}, instead of providing the KMS authentication token value directly in the configuration, you can provide the token value as a secret by using the `signers.kms.auth.token-path` setting.  
+
.Example of creating a KMS token secret
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create secret generic kms-secrets -n tekton-chains \

>   --from-file=KMS_AUTH_TOKEN=/home/user/KMS_AUTH_TOKEN

Reviewer 3: We should add a note here saying the key can be anything

Reviewer 3: Yeah that makes sense 👍🏻 
But we need to make sure, secret name can be also anything

Author: Okay, I will add a note then to make sure

----
+
.Example configuration of the KMS token value using a secret
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
# ...
  chain:
    disabled: false
    signers.kms.auth.token-path: /etc/kms-secrets/KMS_AUTH_TOKEN
    options:
      deployments:
        tekton-chains-controller:
          spec:
            template:
              spec:
                containers:
                - name: tekton-chains-controller
                  volumeMounts:
                  - mountPath: /etc/kms-secrets
                    name: kms-secrets
                volumes:
                -  name: kms-secrets
                   secret:
                    secretName: kms-secrets
# ...
----

> * With this update, you can configure a list of namespaces as an argument to the {tekton-chains} controller. If you provide this list, {tekton-chains} watches pipeline runs and task runs only in the specified namespaces. If you do not provide this list, {tekton-chains} watches pipeline runs and task runs in all namespaces.

Author: @PuneetPunamiya based on our guidelines, we need to refer to pipeline runs  either as: "pipeline runs" (with space) or `PipelineRun` objects. Same for task runs. So I will skip this suggestion. Thank you!

+
.Example configuration for watching only the `dev` and `test` namespaces
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  chain:
    disabled: false
    options:
      deployments:
        tekton-chains-controller:
          spec:
            template:
              spec:
                containers:
                - args:
                  - --namespace=dev, test 
                  name: tekton-chains-controller
----

[id="tekton-results-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== {tekton-results}

* Before this update, {tekton-results} used the `v1beta1` API format to store `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` object records. With this update, {tekton-results} uses the `v1` API format to store `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` object records.

> * With this update, {tekton-results} now supports fetching forwarded logs from third party logging APIs. You can enable the logging API through the `TektonResult` CR by setting the `logs_api` to `true` and `logs_type` to `Loki`.

Reviewer: I suggest moving this one under the next one just to keep the two RNs about API versions together

  pipelines:
  - inputRefs:
    - only-tekton
    name: default-logstore
    outputRefs:
    - default-lokistack
  serviceAccount:
    name: collector
----
+
.YAML manifest for the `ClusterLogForwarder` CR if you installed OpenShift Logging version 5
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "logging.openshift.io/v1"
kind: ClusterLogForwarder
metadata:
  name: instance
  namespace: openshift-logging
spec:
  inputs:
  - name: only-tekton
    application:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app.kubernetes.io/managed-by: tekton-pipelines
  pipelines:
    - name: enable-default-log-store
      inputRefs: [ only-tekton ]
      outputRefs: [ default ]
----
+
Finally, in the `TektonResult` CR in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace, set the following additional parameters:
+
--
* `loki_stack_name`: The name of the `LokiStack` CR, typically `logging-loki`.
* `loki_stack_namespace`: The name of the namespace where LokiStack is deployed, typically `openshift-logging`.
--
+
.Example of configuring LokiStack log forwarding in the `TektonResult` CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1
kind: TektonResult
metadata:
  name: result
spec:
  targetNamespace: tekton-pipelines
# ...

>   loki_stack_name: #optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  loki_stack_name: logging-loki
```

>   loki_stack_namespace: #optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  loki_stack_namespace: openshift-logging
```

----

[id="breaking-changes-1-16_{context}"]
== Breaking changes

* With this update, the metric name for the `EventListener` object for pipelines triggers that counts received events is changed from `eventlistener_event_count` to `eventlistener_event_received_count`.

[id="known-issues-1-16_{context}"]
== Known issues

* The `jib-maven` `ClusterTask` does not work if you are using {OCP} version 4.16 and later.

[id="fixed-issues-1-16_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

* Before this update, when you uninstalled {tekton-hub} by deleting the `TektonHub` CR, the pod of the `hub-db-migration` job was not deleted. With this update, uninstalling {tekton-hub} deletes the pod.

> * Before this update, when you used {tekton-results} to store pod logs from pipelines and tasks, the operation to store the logs sometimes failed. The logs would include the `UpdateLog` action failing with the `canceled context` error. With this update, the operation completes correctly. 

Reviewer 4: LGTM @mramendi

* Before this update, when you passed a parameter value to a pipeline or task and this value included more than one variable, and they use both full and short reference formats, for example, `$(tasks.task-name.results.variable1) + $(variable2)`, {pipelines-shortname} did not interpret the value correctly; the pipeline run or task run could stop execution and the Pipelines controller could crash. With this update, {pipelines-shortname} interprets the value correctly and the pipeline run or task run completes.

> * Before this update, {tekton-chains} would fail to generate correct attestations when a task run included multiple tasks with the same name. For instance, when using a matrix of tasks, the attestation would only be generated for the first image. With this update, {tekton-chains} generates attestations for all tasks within the task run, ensuring complete coverage.

Reviewer: Please replace "would fail to generate" with "failed to generate" and "would only be generated" to "was generated "- the past simple tense is preferred

* Before this update, when you used the `skopeo-copy` task defined in the {pipelines-shortname} installation namespace and set its `VERBOSE` parameter to `false`, the task failed. With this update, the task completes normally.

> * Before this update, if you installed {pipelines-shortname} on a cluster with a high number of namespaces, the installation could take a significant time, because the Operator created RBAC resources in every namespace in a sequence. With this update, the Operator creates the RBAC resources concurrently, resulting in a faster installation.

Reviewer 2: is this still true @jkhelil :thinking: 
asking because you have reverted the changes isn't it ?

Reviewer 5: Yes, this was reverted, so we should remove it.
@eromanova97 
@savitaashture 
@mramendi

* Before this update, when using {pac}, if you set the `concurrency_limit` spec in the global `Repository` CR named `pipelines-as-code` in the `openshift-pipelines` or `pipelines-as-code` namespace, which provides default settings for all `Repository` CRs, the {pac} watcher crashed. With this update, the {pac} watcher operates correctly with this setting.

> * Before this update, the `buildah`, `s2i-*`, and `skopeo-copy` tasks included an extra step compared to the cluster tasks of the same name that were available in previous versions of {pipelines-shortname}. This extra step increased the load on the cluster. With this update, the tasks no longer include the extra step as it is integrated into the first step.

Reviewer 2: I think all the ecosystem tasks now have single steps similar to clusterTask not just the `buildah`, `s2i-*`, and `skopeo-copy` cc @aneeshmbhat 
can you give details to @mramendi so that he can update it

Reviewer 6: yes correct, you can just mention all tasks that are part of openshift-pipelines, since all of them are changed to reflect so.
```

( removed 1 load-scripts step thats all )
cases where we only removed load-scripts step & added the logic to the next step are:
tkn
all s2i tasks
openshift-client
opc
maven
buildah

( along with load-scripts step, removed other steps, since they all used the same image )
Some cases where we removed multiple steps along with load-scripts are:
git-clone -> reduced to single step from 4 steps
git-cli -> reduced to single step from 3 steps
skopeo-copy -> reduced 3 steps to single step
```

Author: Changed it to `Before this update, all tasks in {pipelines-shortname} included an extra step....`
Let me know if that is not correct. Thank you!

Author: Hello @Aneesh-M-Bhat I am not sure I follow now. I changed it from "buildah, s2i & skopeo-copy" to "all tasks", so what exactly is incorrect now? I left the rest of the RN, just changed buildah, s2i & skopeo-copy to "all tasks". I hope now it is clearer. Thank you!

Reviewer 6: `Before this update, all tasks in {pipelines-shortname} included an extra step....`
this should be fine @eromanova97 
but the change wasn't reflected when i saw, but if u change it to this, thats good yes.

* Before this update, if a step action parameter was an `array` type but a `string` value was passed in a task, there was no error indicating inconsistent parameter types and the default parameter value was used instead. With this update, an error is added to indicate the inconsistent values: `invalid parameter substitution: %s. Please check the types of the default value and the passed value`.

* Before this update, task runs and pipeline runs were deleted by an external pruner when logs were streamed through the watcher. With this update, a finalizer is added to {tekton-results} for `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` objects to ensure that the runs are stored and not deleted. The runs are stored either as records or until the deadline has passed, which is calculated as the completion time plus the `store_deadline` time. The finalizer does not prevent deletion if legacy log streaming from the watcher or pruner is enabled. 

> * Before this update, the web console supported the `v1beta1` API format for {tekton-results} to store `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` object records. With this update, the console supports the `v1` API format for {tekton-results} to store `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` object records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the web console supported the `v1beta1` API format for to display the `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` object records that are stored in {tekton-results}. With this update, the console supports the `v1` API format to display `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` object records stored in {tekton-results}. 

Before this update, the web console supported the `v1beta1` API format for  to store `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` object records. With this update, the console supports the `v1` API format for {tekton-results} to store `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` object records.
```

Reviewer: Vikram check results

* Before this update, when using {pac}, if different `PipelineRun` definitions used the same task name but different versions, for example when fetching tasks from {tekton-hub},the wrong version was sometimes triggered, because {pac} used the same task version for all pipeline runs. With this update, {pac} triggers the correct version of the referenced task.

> * Before this update, when you used a resolver to reference remote pipelines or tasks, transient communication errors caused immediate failure retrieving those remote references. With this update, the resolver requeues the retrieval and eventually retries the retrieval.

Reviewer 4: LGTM @mramendi

// This module is included in the following assemblies:
// * release_notes/op-release-notes-1-16.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="op-release-notes-1-16_{context}"]
= Release notes for {pipelines-title} General Availability 1.16

With this update, {pipelines-title} General Availability (GA) 1.16 is available on {OCP} 4.15 and later versions.

[id="new-features-1-16_{context}"]
== New features

In addition to fixes and stability improvements, the following sections highlight what is new in {pipelines-title} 1.16:

[id="pipelines-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== Pipelines

> * With this update, you can configure the resync period for the pipelines controller. Once every resync period, the controller reconciles all pipeline runs and task runs, regardless of events. The default resync period is 10 hours. If you have a large number of pipeline runs and task runs, a full reconciliation every 10 hours might consume too many resources. In this case, you can configure a longer resync period.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can configure the resync period for the pipelines controller. For every resync period, the controller reconciles all pipeline runs and task runs, regardless of events. The default resync period is 10 hours. If you have a large number of pipeline runs and task runs, a full reconciliation every 10 hours might consume too many resources. In this case, you can configure a longer resync period.
```

+
.Example of configuring a resync period of 24 hours
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  pipeline:
    options:
      deployments:
        tekton-pipelines-controller:
          spec:
            template:
              spec:
                containers:
                - name: tekton-pipelines-controller
                  args:

>                     - "-resync-period=24h" 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
                    - "-resync-period=24h" 
# ...
```

Reviewer 7: See https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#signs-and-symbols-in-code-blocks

Reviewer 7: Global update.

Reviewer: @eromanova97 he's right actually - please add the `# ...`  to all the YAML examples/samples in the RN

----

> * With this update, when defining a pipeline, you can set the `onError` parameter for a task to `continue`. If you make this setting and the task fails when the pipeline is executed, the pipeline logs the error and continues to the next task. By default, a pipeline fails if a task in it fails. 

Reviewer 7: Why is "continue" marked here? Is it an official value? It reads like the value is used as a verb and a marked value. I think dropping the marks would be clearer.

Reviewer: `continue ` is the value.

+
.Example of setting the `onError` parameter. After the `task-that-fails` task fails, the `next-task` executes
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1 
kind: Pipeline 
metadata:
  name: example-onerror-pipeline
spec:
  tasks:
  - name: task-that-fails
    onError: continue
    taskSpec:
      steps:
      - image: alpine
        name: exit-with-1
        script: |
          exit 1
  - name: next-task
# ...
----

> * With this update, if a task fails, a `finally` task can access the `reason` parameter in addition to the `status` parameter to distinguish if the failure was allowed or not. You can access the `reason` parameter  through `$(tasks.<task_name>.reason)`. If the failure is allowed, the `reason` is set to`FailureIgnored`, if the failure is not allowed, the `reason` is set to `Failed`. This additional information can be used to identify that the checks failed, but the failure can be ignored. 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* With this update, if a task fails, a `finally` task can access the `reason` parameter in addition to the `status` parameter to distinguish if the failure was allowed or not. You can access the `reason` parameter  through `$(tasks.<task_name>.reason)`. If the failure is allowed, the `reason` is set to `FailureIgnored`. If the failure is not allowed, the `reason` is set to `Failed`. This additional information can be used to identify that the checks failed, but the failure can be ignored. 
```

              echo "$(params.HELLO)"
    - name: echo-bye
      taskSpec:
        steps:
          - name: echo-action
            ref:
              name: step-action-echo
            params:
              - name: msg
                value: "$(params.BYE)" 
----

* With this update, you can use the task run or pipeline run definition to configure the compute resources for steps and sidecars in a task. 
+
.Example task for configuring resources
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1
kind: Task
metadata:
  name: side-step
spec:
  steps:
    - name: test
      image: docker.io//alpine:latest
  sidecars:
    - name: side
      image: docker.io/linuxcontainers/alpine:latest
----
+
.Example `TaskRun` definition that configures the resources
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1
kind: TaskRun
metadata:
  name: test-sidestep
spec:
  taskRef:
    name: side-step
  stepSpecs:
    - name: test
      computeResources:
        requests:
          memory: 1Gi
  sidecarSpecs:
    - name: side
      computeResources:
        requests:
          cpu: 100m
        limits:
          cpu: 500m
----

[id="Operator-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== Operator

> * With this update, {pipelines-shortname} includes the `git-clone` `StepAction` definition for a step that clones a Git repository. Use the HTTP resolver to reference this definition. The URL for the definition is `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-pipelines/tektoncd-catalog/p/stepactions/stepaction-git-clone/0.4.1/stepaction-git-clone.yaml`. The `StepAction` definition is also installed in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace, however, the cluster resolver does not support `StepAction` definitions at present.

Reviewer 7: Escape character needed for the URL?  See https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#example-urls

Author: None of the situations described in the example URLs sections apply here. We are not creating an example here that we would not want to render, nor want to create an external link. For this reason, I am leaving this as it is.

> * With this update, {pipelines-shortname} includes the `git-clone` `StepAction` definition for a step that clones a Git repository. Use the HTTP resolver to reference this definition. The URL for the definition is `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-pipelines/tektoncd-catalog/p/stepactions/stepaction-git-clone/0.4.1/stepaction-git-clone.yaml`. The `StepAction` definition is also installed in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace, however, the cluster resolver does not support `StepAction` definitions at present.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* With this update, {pipelines-shortname} includes the `git-clone` `StepAction` definition for a step that clones a Git repository. Use the HTTP resolver to reference this definition. The URL for the definition is `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-pipelines/tektoncd-catalog/p/stepactions/stepaction-git-clone/0.4.1/stepaction-git-clone.yaml`. The `StepAction` definition is also installed in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace. However, the cluster resolver does not support `StepAction` definitions.
```

> * With this update, {pipelines-shortname} includes the `git-clone` `StepAction` definition for a step that clones a Git repository. Use the HTTP resolver to reference this definition. The URL for the definition is `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-pipelines/tektoncd-catalog/p/stepactions/stepaction-git-clone/0.4.1/stepaction-git-clone.yaml`. The `StepAction` definition is also installed in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace, however, the cluster resolver does not support `StepAction` definitions at present.

Reviewer: Unfortunately, the definition is what it is. `git-clone` is exactly a "`StepAction` definition". The devs don't really like "a step action".

"A resolver" is what we call the functionality, not just the parameter. See https://docs.openshift.com/pipelines/1.15/create/remote-pipelines-tasks-resolvers.html

So I don't think anything changes here.

    - name: URL
      value: $(params.url)
    - name: OUTPUT_PATH
      value: $(workspaces.output.path)
----

* With this update, the `openshift-pipelines` namespace includes versioned tasks alongside standard tasks. For example, there is a `buildah` standard task and a `buildah-1-16-0` versioned task. While the standard task might be updated in subsequent releases, the versioned task remains exactly the same as it was in a specified version, except for correction of errors.

* With this update, you can configure the `FailurePolicy`, `TimeoutSeconds`, and `SideEffects` options for webhooks for several components of {pipelines-shortname} by using the `TektonConfig` CR.
+
.Example configuration of webhooks options for the `pipeline` component
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  pipeline:
    options:
      webhookConfigurationOptions:
        validation.webhook.pipeline.tekton.dev:
          failurePolicy: Fail
          timeoutSeconds: 20
          sideEffects: None
        webhook.pipeline.tekton.dev:
          failurePolicy: Fail
          timeoutSeconds: 20
          sideEffects: None
----
+

> You can use similar configuration for webhooks in the `triggers`, `pipelinesAsCode`, and `hub` components.

Reviewer 7: Could this sentence be added to the first paragraph as it seems buried under the YAML. The format of other notes are in a paragraph block style.

[id="triggers-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== Triggers

* With this update, the `readOnlyRootFilesystem` parameter for the triggers controller, webhook, Core Interceptor, and event listener is set to `true` by default to improve security and avoid being flagged by the security scanner.

* With this update, you can configure {pipelines-shortname} triggers to run event listeners as a non-root user within the container. To set this option, set the parameters in the `TektonConfig` CR as shown in the following example:
+
.Example of configuring trigger event listeners to run as non-root
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  trigger:
    options:
      disabled: false
      configMaps:
        config-defaults-triggers: 
          data:
            default-run-as-non-root: "true"
            default-run-as-user: "65532"
            default-run-as-group: "65532"
            default-fs-group: "65532"
----
+

> Optionally, you can set the values of the `default-run-as-user` and `default-run-as-group` parameters to configure the numeric user ID and group ID for running the event listeners in containers; {pipelines-shortname} sets these values in the pod security context and container security context for event listeners. If you use empty values, the default user ID and group ID of `65532` are used.

Reviewer 7: The semicolon means that this sentence is very long. Use a full stop to break up the two sentences.

![Screenshot from 2024-10-04 15-46-44](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f2af6fa0-b4d3-4c7c-a9ca-a6113ba73f10)

+
You can also set the `default-fs-group` parameter to define the `fsGroup` value for the pod security context, which is the group ID that the container processes use for the file system. If you use an empty value, the default group ID of `65532` is used.

> * With this update, in triggers, the `EventListener` pod template now includes `securityContext` settings. Under these settings, you can configure `seccompProfile`, `runAsUser`, `runAsGroup`, and `fsGroup` parameters when the `el-security-context` flag is set to `true`. 

Reviewer: "triggers" is a component of Pipelines. We could do "in {pipelines-shortname} triggers", I think.

> * With this update, in triggers, the `EventListener` pod template now includes `securityContext` settings. Under these settings, you can configure `seccompProfile`, `runAsUser`, `runAsGroup`, and `fsGroup` parameters when the `el-security-context` flag is set to `true`. 

Author: @mramendi I had it originally as "pipelines triggers", but I got a feedback from SME to remove "pipelines" in front of triggers. 
cc: @savitaashture

[id="pac-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== {pac}

* With this update, if you create two `PipelineRun` definitions with the same name, {pac} logs an error and does not run either of these pipeline runs.

* With this update, the {pac} `pipelines_as_code_pipelinerun_count` metric allows filtering of the `PipelineRun` count by repository or namespace.

* With this update, the `readOnlyRootFilesystem` security context for the {pac} controller, webhook, and watcher is set to `true` by default to increase security and avoid being flagged by the security scanner.

[id="tekton-chains-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== {tekton-chains}

* With this update, when using `docdb` storage in {tekton-chains}, you can configure the `MONGO_SERVER_URL` value directly in the `TektonConfig` CR as the `storage.docdb.mongo-server-url` setting. Alternatively, you can provide this value using a secret and set the `storage.docdb.mongo-server-url-dir` setting to the directory where the `MONGO_SERVER_URL` file is located.
+
.Example of creating a secret with the `MONGO_SERVER_URL` value
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create secret generic mongo-url -n tekton-chains \ #

>   --from-file=MONGO_SERVER_URL=home/user/MONGO_SERVER_URL 

Reviewer 8: I guess that there should be `/` in file path, `/home/user...`

----
+
.Example of configuring the `MONGO_SERVER_URL` value using a secret
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
# ...
  chain:
    disabled: false
    storage.docdb.mongo-server-url-dir: /tmp/mongo-url
    options:
      deployments:
        tekton-chains-controller:
          spec:
            template:
              spec:
                containers:
                - name: tekton-chains-controller
                  volumeMounts:
                  - mountPath: /tmp/mongo-url
                    name: mongo-url
                volumes:
                -  name: mongo-url
                   secret:
                    secretName: mongo-url
# ...
----

* With this update, when using KMS signing in {tekton-chains}, instead of providing the KMS authentication token value directly in the configuration, you can provide the token value as a secret by using the `signers.kms.auth.token-path` setting.  
+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 9: Add a title to this code sample? I notice you do this in most all of the examples, unless I've glazed past some 😆 Its nice and kinda ties back to the bullet clearly.

Reviewer: Very good point, @eromanova97 please do it, and yeah it was I who missed this.

Author: But I definitely forgot to replace the title with an introductory sentence for the command. Something like: `To create a KMS token secret, run the following command:`

Reviewer: Yes, please go ahead with this.

----
$ oc create secret generic <secret_name> -n tekton-chains \
  --from-file=KMS_AUTH_TOKEN=/home/user/KMS_AUTH_TOKEN <1>
----

> <1> Replace `<secret_name>` with any name. The following example uses KMS secret called `kms-secrets`.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
<1> Replace `<secret_name>` with any name. The following example uses a KMS secret called `kms-secrets`.
```

+
.Example configuration of the KMS token value using a secret called `kms-secrets`
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
# ...
  chain:
    disabled: false
    signers.kms.auth.token-path: /etc/kms-secrets/KMS_AUTH_TOKEN
    options:
      deployments:
        tekton-chains-controller:
          spec:
            template:
              spec:
                containers:
                - name: tekton-chains-controller
                  volumeMounts:
                  - mountPath: /etc/kms-secrets
                    name: kms-secrets
                volumes:
                -  name: kms-secrets
                   secret:
                    secretName: kms-secrets
# ...
----

> * With this update, you can configure a list of namespaces as an argument to the {tekton-chains} controller. If you provide this list, {tekton-chains} watches pipeline runs and task runs only in the specified namespaces. If you do not provide this list, {tekton-chains} watches pipeline runs and task runs in all namespaces.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can configure a list of namespaces as an argument to the {tekton-chains} controller. If you provide this list, {tekton-chains} watches pipeline runs and task runs only in the specified namespaces. If you do not provide this list, {tekton-chains} watches pipeline runs and task runs in all of the namespaces.
```

Author: Based on minimalism, I think all namespaces is a better option and also sounds more formal to me. So I will it as it is.

* With this update, {tekton-results} can automatically convert existing records to the `v1` API format. To enable such conversion, set parameters in the `TektonResult` CR as shown in the following example:
+
.Example of configuring {tekton-results} to convert existing records to the `v1` API format
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonResult
metadata:
  name: result
spec:
  options:
    deployments:
      tekton-results-api:
        spec:
          template:
            spec:
              containers:
                - name: api
                  env:
                    - name: CONVERTER_ENABLE
                      value: "true"
                    - name: CONVERTER_DB_LIMIT
                      value: "256" #<1>
----
<1> In the `CONVERTER_DB_LIMIT` variable, set the number of records to convert at the same time in a single transaction.

* With this update, {tekton-results} now supports fetching forwarded logs from third party logging APIs. You can enable the logging API through the `TektonResult` CR by setting the `logs_api` to `true` and `logs_type` to `Loki`.

> * With this update, you can configure automatic pruning of the {tekton-results} database. You can specify the number of days for which records must be stored, as well as the schedule for running the pruner job that removes older records. To set these parameters, edit the `TektonResult` CR, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can configure automatic pruning of the {tekton-results} database. You can specify the number of days for which records must be stored, and the schedule for running the pruner job that removes older records. To set these parameters, edit the `TektonResult` CR, as shown in the following example:
```

Reviewer: I don't think we can accept this change as proposed. ", and", with a comma, breaks the grammar. Without a comma, "the number of days for which records must be stored and the schedule for running the pruner job", it seems rather hard to parse.

However there is a way to handle this. "With this update, you can configure automatic pruning of the {tekton-results} database. You can specify the number of days for which records must be stored. You can also specify the schedule..."

    - default-lokistack
  serviceAccount:
    name: collector
----
+
.YAML manifest for the `ClusterLogForwarder` CR if you installed OpenShift Logging version 5
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "logging.openshift.io/v1"
kind: ClusterLogForwarder
metadata:
  name: instance
  namespace: openshift-logging
spec:
  inputs:
  - name: only-tekton
    application:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app.kubernetes.io/managed-by: tekton-pipelines
  pipelines:
    - name: enable-default-log-store
      inputRefs: [ only-tekton ]
      outputRefs: [ default ]
----
+
Finally, in the `TektonResult` CR in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace, set the following additional parameters:
+
--
* `loki_stack_name`: The name of the `LokiStack` CR, typically `logging-loki`.
* `loki_stack_namespace`: The name of the namespace where LokiStack is deployed, typically `openshift-logging`.
--
+
.Example of configuring LokiStack log forwarding in the `TektonResult` CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonResult
metadata:
  name: result
spec:
  targetNamespace: tekton-pipelines
# ...
  loki_stack_name: logging-loki
  loki_stack_namespace: openshift-logging
----

> [id="breaking-changes-1-16_{context}"]

Reviewer 7: Is "Breaking changes" a needed title? What does it mean? All the features should be anyway?

Reviewer 9: I suggested using "Notable technical changes" here instead, like in OCP docs.

Reviewer: "Breaking changes" is the title in all previous Pipelines RNs. We need to keep it for consistency.

> == Breaking changes

Reviewer 9: Just a suggestion, instead of "breaking" what about "notable technical change" like in the big OCP release notes: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/release_notes/ocp-4-17-release-notes.html#ocp-4-17-notable-technical-changes_release-notes

Reviewer: As noted before - consistency.

* With this update, the metric name for the `EventListener` object for pipelines triggers that counts received events is changed from `eventlistener_event_count` to `eventlistener_event_received_count`.

[id="known-issues-1-16_{context}"]
== Known issues

* The `jib-maven` `ClusterTask` does not work if you are using {OCP} version 4.16 and later.

[id="fixed-issues-1-16_{context}"]

> == Fixed issues

Reviewer 9: I think based on SSG, Fixed issues should be Bug fixes: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#release-notes. That's the category.

Reviewer: Again, "Fixed issues" was used in previous Pipelines version RNs, so for consistency we need to keep it - pending a review of RN practices to harmonize them for all the layered products.

* Before this update, when you uninstalled {tekton-hub} by deleting the `TektonHub` CR, the pod of the `hub-db-migration` job was not deleted. With this update, uninstalling {tekton-hub} deletes the pod.

* Before this update, when you used {tekton-results} to store pod logs from pipelines and tasks, the operation to store the logs sometimes failed. The logs would include the `UpdateLog` action failing with the `canceled context` error. With this update, the operation completes correctly. 

> * Before this update, when you passed a parameter value to a pipeline or task and this value included more than one variable, and they use both full and short reference formats, for example, `$(tasks.task-name.results.variable1) + $(variable2)`, {pipelines-shortname} did not interpret the value correctly; the pipeline run or task run could stop execution and the Pipelines controller could crash. With this update, {pipelines-shortname} interprets the value correctly and the pipeline run or task run completes.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* Before this update, passing a parameter value to a pipeline or task where the value included more than one variable and both full and short reference formats, {pipelines-shortname} did not interpret the value correctly. For example, `$(tasks.task-name.results.variable1) + $(variable2)`. The pipeline run or task run could stop execution and the Pipelines controller could crash. With this update, {pipelines-shortname} interprets the value correctly and the pipeline run or task run completes.
```

Reviewer 9: Suggested reworking eliminating some pronouns and adding the example to a separate sentence instead of interjecting it.

Reviewer: I don't really think this change works: 

- "passing a parameter value... {pipelines-shortname} did not interpret the value correctly" sounds like it's Pipelines that passed the value, but in reality the user did.

- The example looks like a partial sentence disconnected from the previous sentence.

I do agree that instead of the semicolon there should be a full stop before "The pipeline run or task run could stop".

Author: @mramendi I aggree. I, however, think we could make this part better: `...and this value included more than one variable, and they use both full and short reference formats, ...`

I think this would work too and be more concise: `...and the value included more than one variable with both full and short reference formats...` WDYT?

* Before this update, when you used the `skopeo-copy` task defined in the {pipelines-shortname} installation namespace and set its `VERBOSE` parameter to `false`, the task failed. With this update, the task completes normally.

* Before this update, when using {pac}, if you set the `concurrency_limit` spec in the global `Repository` CR named `pipelines-as-code` in the `openshift-pipelines` or `pipelines-as-code` namespace, which provides default settings for all `Repository` CRs, the {pac} watcher crashed. With this update, the {pac} watcher operates correctly with this setting.

* Before this update, all tasks in {pipelines-shortname} included an extra step compared to the cluster tasks of the same name that were available in previous versions of {pipelines-shortname}. This extra step increased the load on the cluster. With this update, the tasks no longer include the extra step as it is integrated into the first step.

> * Before this update, when you used one of the `s2i-*` tasks defined in the {pipelines-shortname} installation namespace and set its `CONTEXT` parameter, the parameter was not interpreted correctly and the task failed. With this update, the task interprets the `CONTEX`T parameter correctly and completes successfully.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Before this update, when you used one of the `s2i-*` tasks defined in the {pipelines-shortname} installation namespace and set its `CONTEXT` parameter, the parameter was not interpreted correctly and the task failed. With this update, the task interprets the `CONTEXT` parameter correctly and completes successfully.
```

Reviewer 9: Also commented the same.

> * Before this update, when you used one of the `s2i-*` tasks defined in the {pipelines-shortname} installation namespace and set its `CONTEXT` parameter, the parameter was not interpreted correctly and the task failed. With this update, the task interprets the `CONTEX`T parameter correctly and completes successfully.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* Before this update, when using one of the `s2i-*` tasks defined in the {pipelines-shortname} installation namespace and set its `CONTEXT` parameter, the parameter was not interpreted correctly, and the task failed. With this update, the task interprets the `CONTEXT` parameter correctly and completes successfully.
```

Reviewer: Same issue as the previous comment - "when using... the paramenet was not interpreted correctly" sounds like the same entity was "using" and "not interpreting".

However I do see another issue in this one - this passive voice should be removed. Also the `CONTEXT` typo is very real.

```suggestion
* Before this update, when you used one of the `s2i-*` tasks defined in the {pipelines-shortname} installation namespace and set its `CONTEXT` parameter, the task did not interpret the parameter correctly and the task failed. With this update, the task interprets the `CONTEXT` parameter correctly and completes successfully.
```

> * Before this update, in {tekton-chains} the in-toto provenance metadata, `URI` and `Digest`, were incomplete. They contained only the information of remote `Pipeline` and `Task` resources, but were missing the information of the remote `StepAction` resource. With this update, the provenance of the remote `StepAction` resource is recorded in the task run status and inserted into the in-toto provenance, which results in complete in-toto provenance metadata.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* Before this update, in {tekton-chains} the in-toto provenance metadata, `URI` and `Digest` values?, were incomplete. The values contained only the information of remote `Pipeline` and `Task` resources, but were missing the information of the remote `StepAction` resource. With this update, the provenance of the remote `StepAction` resource is recorded in the task run status and inserted into the in-toto provenance, which results in complete in-toto provenance metadata.
```

Reviewer 9: I'm wondering if there can be something more specific than "they" to reference `URI` and `Digest`. Like values?

Reviewer: "Values" should work, yes.

* Before this update, you could modify some of the parameters in the `spec` field of the `PipelineRun` and `TaskRun` resources that should not be modifiable after the resources were created. With this update, you can only modify the allowed fields after the pipeline run and task run are created, such as `status` and `statusMessage` fields.

* Before this update, if a step action parameter was an `array` type but a `string` value was passed in a task, there was no error indicating inconsistent parameter types and the default parameter value was used instead. With this update, an error is added to indicate the inconsistent values: `invalid parameter substitution: %s. Please check the types of the default value and the passed value`.

> * Before this update, task runs and pipeline runs were deleted by an external pruner when logs were streamed through the watcher. With this update, a finalizer is added to {tekton-results} for `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` objects to ensure that the runs are stored and not deleted. The runs are stored either as records or until the deadline has passed, which is calculated as the completion time plus the `store_deadline` time. The finalizer does not prevent deletion if legacy log streaming from the watcher or pruner is enabled. 

Reviewer 7: None of these bugs link to Jiras. The core OCP RN doc would include links so customers can explore further. From a docs perspective, the links help find duplicates and so forth.

Reviewer 9: I had the same feedback.

Reviewer: This is just how Pipelines RNs work for several years now.

          exit 1
  - name: next-task
# ...
----

* With this update, if a task fails, a `finally` task can access the `reason` parameter in addition to the `status` parameter to distinguish if the failure was allowed or not. You can access the `reason` parameter  through `$(tasks.<task_name>.reason)`. If the failure is allowed, the `reason` is set to`FailureIgnored`, if the failure is not allowed, the `reason` is set to `Failed`. This additional information can be used to identify that the checks failed, but the failure can be ignored. 

* With this update, larger results are supported through sidecar logs as an alternative to the default configuration, which limits results to the size of 4 KB per step and 12 KB per task run. To enable larger results using sidecar logs, set the `pipeline.options.configMaps.feature-flags.data.results-from` spec to `sidecar-logs` in the `TektonConfig` CR.
+
.Example of enabling larger results using sidecar logs
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  pipeline:
    options:
      configMaps:
        feature-flags:
          data:
            results-from: "sidecar-logs"

> ----

Author: @mramendi @vdemeester @jkandasa I am tagging you to check the example as per the Slack thread discussing this one. Thank you!

Reviewer: LGTM

Reviewer 10: LGTM 🐯

=== Pipelines

* With this update, you can configure the resync period for the pipelines controller. For every resync period, the controller reconciles all pipeline runs and task runs, regardless of events. The default resync period is 10 hours. If you have a large number of pipeline runs and task runs, a full reconciliation every 10 hours might consume too many resources. In this case, you can configure a longer resync period.
+
.Example of configuring a resync period of 24 hours
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  pipeline:
    options:
      deployments:
        tekton-pipelines-controller:
          spec:
            template:
              spec:
                containers:
                - name: tekton-pipelines-controller
                  args:
                    - "-resync-period=24h" 
# ...
----

* With this update, when defining a pipeline, you can set the `onError` parameter for a task to `continue`. If you make this setting and the task fails when the pipeline is executed, the pipeline logs the error and continues to the next task. By default, a pipeline fails if a task in it fails. 
+

> .Example of setting the `onError` parameter. After the `task-that-fails` task fails, the `next-task` executes

Reviewer 11: Not sure about having multiple sentences in a block title. But if there were, would still expect the 2nd sentence to be punctuated. Ideally though, I feel like the 2nd sentence should just be moved to after the code block as normal text, or set it as a callout on the `name: next-task` line maybe?

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1 
kind: Pipeline 
metadata:
  name: example-onerror-pipeline
spec:
  tasks:
  - name: task-that-fails
    onError: continue
    taskSpec:
      steps:
      - image: alpine
        name: exit-with-1
        script: |
          exit 1
  - name: next-task
# ...
----

* With this update, if a task fails, a `finally` task can access the `reason` parameter in addition to the `status` parameter to distinguish if the failure was allowed or not. You can access the `reason` parameter  through `$(tasks.<task_name>.reason)`. If the failure is allowed, the `reason` is set to `FailureIgnored`. If the failure is not allowed, the `reason` is set to `Failed`. This additional information can be used to identify that the checks failed, but the failure can be ignored. 

> * With this update, larger results are supported through sidecar logs as an alternative to the default configuration, which limits results to the size of 4 KB per step and 12 KB per task run. To enable larger results using sidecar logs, set the `pipeline.options.configMaps.feature-flags.data.results-from` spec to `sidecar-logs` in the `TektonConfig` CR.

Reviewer 11: I believe this is the first instance of "CR", therefore:
```suggestion
* With this update, larger results are supported through sidecar logs as an alternative to the default configuration, which limits results to the size of 4 KB per step and 12 KB per task run. To enable larger results using sidecar logs, set the `pipeline.options.configMaps.feature-flags.data.results-from` spec to `sidecar-logs` in the `TektonConfig` custom resource (CR).
```
Otherwise, it's not actually spelled out anywhere in this assembly.

              echo "$(params.HELLO)"
    - name: echo-bye
      taskSpec:
        steps:
          - name: echo-action
            ref:
              name: step-action-echo
            params:
              - name: msg
                value: "$(params.BYE)" 
# ...
----

* With this update, you can use the task run or pipeline run definition to configure the compute resources for steps and sidecars in a task. 
+
.Example task for configuring resources
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1
kind: Task
metadata:
  name: side-step
spec:
  steps:
    - name: test
      image: docker.io//alpine:latest
  sidecars:
    - name: side
      image: docker.io/linuxcontainers/alpine:latest
# ...
----
+
.Example `TaskRun` definition that configures the resources
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1
kind: TaskRun
metadata:
  name: test-sidestep
spec:
  taskRef:
    name: side-step
  stepSpecs:
    - name: test
      computeResources:
        requests:
          memory: 1Gi
  sidecarSpecs:
    - name: side
      computeResources:
        requests:
          cpu: 100m
        limits:
          cpu: 500m
# ...
----

[id="Operator-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== Operator

> * With this update, {pipelines-shortname} includes the `git-clone` `StepAction` definition for a step that clones a Git repository. Use the HTTP resolver to reference this definition. The URL for the definition is `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-pipelines/tektoncd-catalog/p/stepactions/stepaction-git-clone/0.4.1/stepaction-git-clone.yaml`. The `StepAction` definition is also installed in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace. However, the cluster resolver does not support `StepAction` definitions.

Reviewer 11: Nit, might break this up, particularly with that URL/link being so long:
```suggestion
* With this update, {pipelines-shortname} includes the `git-clone` `StepAction` definition for a step that clones a Git repository. Use the HTTP resolver to reference this definition. The URL for the definition is `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-pipelines/tektoncd-catalog/p/stepactions/stepaction-git-clone/0.4.1/stepaction-git-clone.yaml`.
+
The `StepAction` definition is also installed in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace. However, the cluster resolver does not support `StepAction` definitions.
```

[id="pac-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== {pac}

* With this update, if you create two `PipelineRun` definitions with the same name, {pac} logs an error and does not run either of these pipeline runs.

* With this update, the {pac} `pipelines_as_code_pipelinerun_count` metric allows filtering of the `PipelineRun` count by repository or namespace.

* With this update, the `readOnlyRootFilesystem` security context for the {pac} controller, webhook, and watcher is set to `true` by default to increase security and avoid being flagged by the security scanner.

[id="tekton-chains-new-features-1-16_{context}"]
=== {tekton-chains}

* With this update, when using `docdb` storage in {tekton-chains}, you can configure the `MONGO_SERVER_URL` value directly in the `TektonConfig` CR as the `storage.docdb.mongo-server-url` setting. Alternatively, you can provide this value using a secret and set the `storage.docdb.mongo-server-url-dir` setting to the directory where the `MONGO_SERVER_URL` file is located.
+
.Example of creating a secret with the `MONGO_SERVER_URL` value
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc create secret generic mongo-url -n tekton-chains \ #

Reviewer 11: I don't think this breaks anything as-is, but wondering about the `#` on the end after the line-break, since there's no callout:
```suggestion
$ oc create secret generic mongo-url -n tekton-chains \
```

    options:
      deployments:
        tekton-chains-controller:
          spec:
            template:
              spec:
                containers:
                - name: tekton-chains-controller
                  volumeMounts:
                  - mountPath: /etc/kms-secrets
                    name: kms-secrets
                volumes:
                -  name: kms-secrets
                   secret:
                    secretName: kms-secrets
# ...
----

* With this update, you can configure a list of namespaces as an argument to the {tekton-chains} controller. If you provide this list, {tekton-chains} watches pipeline runs and task runs only in the specified namespaces. If you do not provide this list, {tekton-chains} watches pipeline runs and task runs in all namespaces.
+
.Example configuration for watching only the `dev` and `test` namespaces
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  chain:
    disabled: false
    options:
      deployments:
        tekton-chains-controller:
          spec:
            template:
              spec:
                containers:
                - args:

>                   - --namespace=dev, test 

Reviewer 11: I have no idea, but I wondered if this this space after the comma between the namespaces would mess anything up, or if it's intentional syntax in this CR context. I saw what seemed like a similar instance in upstream docs where there was no comma, FWIW: https://tekton.dev/docs/chains/config/#example 

```
--namespace=dev,test
```

=== {tekton-results}

* Before this update, {tekton-results} used the `v1beta1` API format to store `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` object records. With this update, {tekton-results} uses the `v1` API format to store `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` object records.

* With this update, {tekton-results} can automatically convert existing records to the `v1` API format. To enable such conversion, set parameters in the `TektonResult` CR as shown in the following example:
+
.Example of configuring {tekton-results} to convert existing records to the `v1` API format
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonResult
metadata:
  name: result
spec:
  options:
    deployments:
      tekton-results-api:
        spec:
          template:
            spec:
              containers:
                - name: api
                  env:
                    - name: CONVERTER_ENABLE
                      value: "true"
                    - name: CONVERTER_DB_LIMIT
                      value: "256" #<1>
# ...
----
<1> In the `CONVERTER_DB_LIMIT` variable, set the number of records to convert at the same time in a single transaction.

> * With this update, {tekton-results} now supports fetching forwarded logs from third party logging APIs. You can enable the logging API through the `TektonResult` CR by setting the `logs_api` to `true` and `logs_type` to `Loki`.

Reviewer 11: Either "the `logs_api` field" (or similar word) or just drop "the", which seems more consistent with the rest of these relnotes:
```suggestion
* With this update, {tekton-results} now supports fetching forwarded logs from third party logging APIs. You can enable the logging API through the `TektonResult` CR by setting `logs_api` to `true` and `logs_type` to `Loki`.
```

* Before this update, when using {pac}, if you set the `concurrency_limit` spec in the global `Repository` CR named `pipelines-as-code` in the `openshift-pipelines` or `pipelines-as-code` namespace, which provides default settings for all `Repository` CRs, the {pac} watcher crashed. With this update, the {pac} watcher operates correctly with this setting.

* Before this update, all tasks in {pipelines-shortname} included an extra step compared to the cluster tasks of the same name that were available in previous versions of {pipelines-shortname}. This extra step increased the load on the cluster. With this update, the tasks no longer include the extra step as it is integrated into the first step.

* Before this update, when you used one of the `s2i-*` tasks defined in the {pipelines-shortname} installation namespace and set its `CONTEXT` parameter, the task did not interpret the parameter correctly and the task failed. With this update, the task interprets the `CONTEXT` parameter correctly and completes successfully.

> * Before this update, in {tekton-chains} the in-toto provenance metadata, `URI` and `Digest` values, were incomplete. The values contained only the information of remote `Pipeline` and `Task` resources, but were missing the information of the remote `StepAction` resource. With this update, the provenance of the remote `StepAction` resource is recorded in the task run status and inserted into the in-toto provenance, which results in complete in-toto provenance metadata.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
* Before this update, in {tekton-chains} the in-toto provenance metadata, the `URI` and `Digest` values, were incomplete. The values contained only the information of remote `Pipeline` and `Task` resources, but were missing the information of the remote `StepAction` resource. With this update, the provenance of the remote `StepAction` resource is recorded in the task run status and inserted into the in-toto provenance, which results in complete in-toto provenance metadata.
```
?

* Before this update, you could modify some of the parameters in the `spec` field of the `PipelineRun` and `TaskRun` resources that should not be modifiable after the resources were created. With this update, you can only modify the allowed fields after the pipeline run and task run are created, such as `status` and `statusMessage` fields.

> * Before this update, if a step action parameter was an `array` type but a `string` value was passed in a task, there was no error indicating inconsistent parameter types and the default parameter value was used instead. With this update, an error is added to indicate the inconsistent values: `invalid parameter substitution: %s. Please check the types of the default value and the passed value`.

Reviewer 11: Kind of long for an in-sentence monospace:
```suggestion
* Before this update, if a step action parameter was an `array` type but a `string` value was passed in a task, there was no error indicating inconsistent parameter types and the default parameter value was used instead. This update adds the following error to indicate the inconsistent values:
+
[source,text]
----
invalid parameter substitution: %s. Please check the types of the default value and the passed value
----
```

* Before this update, task runs and pipeline runs were deleted by an external pruner when logs were streamed through the watcher. With this update, a finalizer is added to {tekton-results} for `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` objects to ensure that the runs are stored and not deleted. The runs are stored either as records or until the deadline has passed, which is calculated as the completion time plus the `store_deadline` time. The finalizer does not prevent deletion if legacy log streaming from the watcher or pruner is enabled. 

* Before this update, the web console supported the `v1beta1` API format to display the `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` object records that are stored in {tekton-results}. With this update, the console supports the `v1` API format to display `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` object records stored in {tekton-results}. 

> * Before this update, when using {pac}, if different `PipelineRun` definitions used the same task name but different versions, for example when fetching tasks from {tekton-hub},the wrong version was sometimes triggered, because {pac} used the same task version for all pipeline runs. With this update, {pac} triggers the correct version of the referenced task.

Reviewer 11: Missing space:
```suggestion
* Before this update, when using {pac}, if different `PipelineRun` definitions used the same task name but different versions, for example when fetching tasks from {tekton-hub}, the wrong version was sometimes triggered, because {pac} used the same task version for all pipeline runs. With this update, {pac} triggers the correct version of the referenced task.
```
